+++
title = "Upgrade All the Things"
date = 2019-04-04
author = "Joshua Grady"
cover = ""
tags = ["Apple", "Razer", "Windows", "Android"]
description = "I’ve enjoyed getting my hands on new tech for as long as I can remember. Even when I was too young to understand which products had good specs or features, trying out new tech was always something I looked forward to. Though this did result in more than one [netbook](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netbook) purchase when I was a teenager. Though I do like to try new things and tinker, I’ve consciously been trying to buy tech than I plan on keeping long-term. This resulted in a purchase of a 2015 13-inch MacBook Pro that I used for several years, and after ditching Android back in 2017, I used an iPhone SE for a while before settling into an iPhone 7 early last year. Sticking with these older products was partially an attempt to be a financially responsible adult. That’s what I told myself at least."
showFullContent = false
+++

I’ve enjoyed getting my hands on new tech for as long as I can remember. Even when I was too young to understand which products had good specs or features, trying out new tech was always something I looked forward to. Though this did result in more than one [netbook](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netbook) purchase when I was a teenager. Though I do like to try new things and tinker, I’ve consciously been trying to buy tech than I plan on keeping long-term. This resulted in a purchase of a 2015 13-inch MacBook Pro that I used for several years, and after ditching Android back in 2017, I used an iPhone SE for a while before settling into an iPhone 7 early last year. Sticking with these older products was partially an attempt to be a financially responsible adult. That’s what I told myself at least.

The truth is I tried a few different laptops and phones over the last couple of years and never could settle for anything new that offered the same experience I’d grown accustomed to with having both an Apple laptop and smartphone. Some of my attempted purchases ranged from a Dell G Series gaming laptop to some higher end laptops from Razer. I also tried a few smartphones from Samsung’s Galaxy line, but I never could comfortably readjust to using Android. Or Windows for that matter.

Thanks to a failing battery in my laptop, along with a crack in my iPhone thanks to [my dog](https://www.instagram.com/p/BYoWps6nzcj/), I started to get that itch to totally overhaul my everyday tech. This was dangerous considering some of the deep discounts being offered on some of last year’s products. After a ton of browsing and shopping around for deals, I drove to my local Best Buy and purchased these products:

- 2018 Razer Blade 15 (Advanced)
- Samsung Galaxy S9 (Unlocked)
- 9.7-inch iPad (6th gen)

Though this was probably overkill in hindsight, I had a plan for each product. If my previously attempted purchases didn’t give it away, I wanted to dabble with PC gaming. My Steam library is pretty large for someone who still has never owned a proper gaming PC, and I wanted to work my way through some of those titles. The Blade 15 would be more than enough power for what I wanted to do, and extra perks like a 144Hz display with thin bezels and a MacBook-esque design won me over. Plus, who doesn’t want RGB on their laptops? With the Galaxy S9, there was definitely more competition. Other options like the Pixel 3 and even the Razer Phone 2 were appealing for different reasons, but unique features like [Samsung Pay](https://www.androidcentral.com/samsung-pay) and Samsung’s new [One UI](https://www.samsung.com/us/apps/one-ui/) were enough for me to give another Samsung device a shot. Finally, I didn’t want to retire from using any Apple products, so I decided to pick up an iPad as well. Sure, it’s not the futuristic new iPad Pro, but it was a perfect way to keep playing with iOS. Plus, I’ll be traveling quite a bit over the upcoming year as my wife finishes up vet school, so the iPad could act as a secondary display while I’m away from my home office.

I also put quite a bit of thought into moving away from a single ecosystem with these purchases. Having these specific devices would allow me to tinker with the latest operating systems and features from Microsoft, Google, and Apple. There’s certainly some appeal in attempting to be OS “agnostic” and using products from different manufacturers, and I wanted to really wanted to give this concept a fair shot. Unfortunately, while this all sounded good in theory, things didn’t work out as smoothly as I was hoping. It didn’t take a lot of time before realizing that trying to streamline even basic functionality between these three devices would be a challenge.

I quickly ran into several annoyances while using each device’s built-in apps with my email provider [FastMail](https://www.fastmail.com/). While I was able to get email, calendar, and contacts synced on my iPad with a simple [configuration profile](https://www.fastmail.com/help/clients/iphone.html), this was not nearly as streamlined on the other devices. Since Android nor Windows has true native support for CalDAV or CardDAV, I had to use [third-party apps](https://www.davx5.com) and [strange workarounds](https://www.ctrl.blog/entry/how-to-win10-webdav-syncengine) just to get my contacts and calendars synced up. I also ran into issues with the stock Samsung and Windows email apps where my messages simply wouldn’t sync properly when marked as read, archived, or deleted from other devices. Synchronizing calendar event reminders also didn’t work properly, and since I rely on these notifications with keeping up with both personal and work responsibilities, it was frustrating to get notified at seemingly random times across different devices for my events.

Sure, a lot of these issues are pretty minor, but with being pretty integrated in FastMail, I didn’t want to hop back over to Google just for syncing my contacts and calendar. Third-party software was also an option, but after coming from the reliable built-in apps on Apple’s devices, I wanted to stick with apps that were integrated into whatever operating system I was using. Other concerns also came up with these products; some of which were just related to the operating systems while others were device specific. For whatever reason, Samsung decided to offer [McAfee-branded](https://www.pcmag.com/news/359372/mcafee-samsung-partner-on-built-in-security-vpn-for-galaxy) security and optimization features right in the Settings app of recent Galaxy devices. Windows 10 clutters up the Start menu with app suggestions somewhat forces the use of Bing search. I even gave Bixby a fair shot on my S9, and it really wasn’t especially useful during my testing, especially with how reliable Google Assistant already is. I also ran into odd issues with the Blade when trying to use [Duet Display](https://www.duetdisplay.com) on the iPad that left me scratching my head and forced me to wipe and reinstall my GPU drivers.

Since most of these issues weren’t causing deal breaker levels of frustration, I decided to stick with my purchases and continue using each device anyway. Unfortunately, while I was still trying to work out some of these quirks, the Blade started to demonstrate some odd hardware issues in the form of random [stop errors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_Screen_of_Death) when the device was idle. This essentially eliminated my ability to use the laptop as a reliable home server in any way, especially since it would display a BSOD every time it was left idle for an hour or more. After trying to take the laptop back to Best Buy right outside of their return window, I contacted Razer to arrange a repair and realized I was just about done with this whole experiment. With the mix of operating system issues and hardware reliability concerns, I turned around and picked up a 2018 15-inch MacBook Pro and an iPhone XR.

Trust me, this wasn’t my original intention. I planned on living with these products while continuing to work around their quirks, but adding unstable hardware into the mix wasn’t going to cut it. After some digging, Razer seems to have a history of laptop hardware issues, and considering I need a reliable computer for [my job](https://swappa.com/about), I decided to go back to what I was familiar with in a MacBook Pro. I’m sure I could have found another Windows laptop from a more reputable manufacturer like Dell with their XPS line, but none of those options appealed to me like the Blade did. The mix of gaming performance and design just wasn’t something I could find elsewhere. Especially with a 144Hz display.

Picking up an iPhone XR was a bit of a gamble for me. I didn’t want a larger smartphone considering how perfect the iPhone 7 fit in my hand, but I also didn’t want to drop the extra cash on iPhone XS just for a smaller device. There was also the option of picking up last year’s iPhone X, but it was still a bit more expensive than I preferred. It wasn’t fun dropping $750 on a smartphone, but the XR checked enough boxes and was the easiest route back into Apple’s world without settling for an even older device.

So that’s where I’m at now. Readjusting to Apple’s infamous ecosystem with updated hardware. I’m aware there are some concerns and downsides with these specific purchases. For example, the keyboards on newer MacBooks are [still failing at a high rate](https://www.wsj.com/graphics/apple-still-hasnt-fixed-its-macbook-keyboard-problem/), Face ID on the XR always reliable even in this second iteration, and dongles are all but required with the limited port selection on newer MacBooks. But for whatever reason, I don’t mind. I don’t mind the drop in graphical performance with this laptop. I don’t mind losing a fingerprint reader on my phone. These products all just work incredibly well together.

All that said, I’m still trying my best to stay invested other ecosystems in smaller ways when I can. My Chromecast performs well enough where I couldn’t justify an Apple TV purchase anytime soon, and modern smartwatches really don’t appeal to me <a href="https://www.engadget.com/2016/12/07/fitbit-buys-pebble/">(RIP Pebble)</a>. I also try to stay flexible as possible with my choices in apps. Pocket Casts is still my go to app for podcasts over Apple Podcasts, but Overcast is an app I’d like to test out soon. Spotify’s family plan is still best for my wife and me since she’s a happy Pixel 3 user, and I know she wouldn’t be a fan of Apple Music on an Android device. I also won’t be getting away from Google’s apps anytime soon with services like YouTube, Google Maps, and Google Drive.

However, when it comes to basic hardware and software integration, I’ve determined that what Apple offers at this time works best for my workflow. Giving both Android and Windows another try quickly reminded me of the limitations that often come with more flexible platforms, and though there’s still plenty of valid criticism regarding Apple as a company, I have yet to replicate the experience of using Apple’s ecosystem with any other combination of hardware I’ve tried so far. Of course, this is something that could change at any time. Though I’m not jumping to make any other large tech purchases at the moment, maybe I can use this blog post as a reminder when I get that inevitable urge to buy new tech again in the future.

In the meantime, I’ll be trying to find some good uses for the iPad while reselling all of the other devices mentioned here. My fingers are crossed that the repair process with Razer goes smoothly, [though I have my concerns](https://www.reddit.com/r/razer/search?q=support%20experience&restrict_sr=1).
