+++
title = "WWDC 2019"
date = 2019-06-14T20:00:00-04:00
author = "Joshua Grady"
cover = "images/wwdc2019.jpg"
tags = ["Apple", "WWDC", "macOS", "iOS"]
description = "I’m a _far_ shot from being any kind of developer, but I do love to follow the advancements in new features that tech giants implement into their operating systems. As a long-time Android user before moving to iOS a few years ago, I’ve watched Google IO for many years now, but I only casually followed previous WWDC events."
showFullContent = false
+++

I’m a _far_ shot from being any kind of developer, but I do love to follow the advancements in new features that tech giants implement into their operating systems. As a long-time Android user before moving to iOS a few years ago, I’ve watched Google IO for many years now, but I only casually followed previous WWDC events.

This year was potentially my first time watching an entire WWDC entire keynote, and what a year it was to start. I could barely keep up with the pace of the announcements, and from the media coverage of the event over last week, this was a common theme. Especially for those who were actually at the conference.

Due to my job, I rely on device stability to ensure that I can be contacted at any time, so I don’t currently plan to test out any macOS or iOS betas. However, there are so many new features I cannot wait to try in stable release.

- **iPadOS** - I've recently started to use my 6th-gen iPad for very specific work-related tasks. Paired with a Magic Keyboard, I've found that the "limitations" of working in iOS often help to keep me focussed on a specific task. Thanks to iPadOS, bringing my iPad along to act as a primary computing device will become even more feasible. Desktop Safari with a download manager, split view options within single app, better file management features, and so much more are right around the corner.

- **Catalyst** - Previously known across the Internet as Marzipan, this provides developers with a method to bring their iPad apps over to the Mac. I've referenced this in [a previous post about podcasts](https://nograsswillgrow.com/posts/switching-to-overcast/), as I'd love to have Overcast on my MacBook Pro. There are tons of great iPad apps that I think macOS could really benefit from, assuming the developers take the proper steps to ensure their app _feels_ like a Mac app.

- **Dark Mode** - While I've been enjoying this in Mojave over the last year, I'm excited that this is officially coming to iOS as well. I use a dark theme in almost every app that offers it, so having this at a system level will only make things better. I also can't wait for the ability to switch between light and dark mode at sunrise and sunset, as this seemed like a clear oversight with the implementation offered in macOS. This addition seemed to have a big influence on the theme[^1] of the whole conference this year.

- **Sidecar** - I've been using a [Luna Display](https://lunadisplay.com) for a while now, and as someone who often ends up working away from home, it's incredibly useful to have a second screen to work with anytime I need it. However, it drains my MacBook Pro battery very quickly, so having a native feature that replicates this functionality is something I'll be trying day one. It's also appears to be [buttery smooth](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9y1mGJqmtNA).

- **CarPlay** - Outside of a whole design overhaul for how CarPlay will look in iOS 13, CarPlay will finally support allowing an app to run on the car's display without requiring the same app to be open on the iPhone's display. This means I will finally be able to leave Maps displayed at all times while having Spotify open on my iPhone for better music navigation (only when parked _of course_).

- **Look Around in Maps** - I still keep Google Maps on my iPhone as a backup for certain features that Apple Maps just doesn't have, such as location sharing with non-iPhone users such as my wife. However, Look Around is one more feature that will allow me to continue moving away from Google Maps entirely.

- **Sign in with Apple** - Though there appears to be some debate in [some of the points Apple was suggesting](https://www.theverge.com/2019/6/12/18662594/google-login-apple-sso-account-security-passwords-mark-risher) in their announcement of this feature, the ability to sign into an app and provide a randomized email address that can be revoked if abused is spectacular. [Requiring many app developers to implement this](https://www.macrumors.com/2019/06/03/sign-in-with-apple-required-as-sign-in-option/) may be another discussion entirely.

- **Find My App** - This announcement was next-level. Due to the sheer number of Apple devices out in the world, having them all work together to create a network for locating lost devices is incredible. It's even more impressive that this can work even when Wi-Fi happens to be disabled on the misplaced or potentially stolen device. I also hope I _never_ have to use this.

- **Shortcuts and Automation** - I'm still a Shortcuts noob, but even I could come up with some handy new functionality to take advantage some of the new features, especially related to automation. Coming as a system app should really open up some possibilities that weren't available before.

- **Keyboard Swiping in iOS** - It's about damn time.

- **Controller Support in iOS** - See above.

- **Miscellaneous iOS Changes** - You can now change your Wi-Fi network from Control Center. You can also now remove restrictions when downloading large apps over a cellular connection. You can also see your screen when adjusting the volume. How neat.

I'm sure I'm still missing several other features I'll be excited to try this fall. I also didn't even begin to touch on other big announcements like the new Mac Pro and Swift UI. After watching all of these announcements from home, the idea of attending one of these conferences in the future is pretty enticing. The energy was tangible, especially with how packed this event was.

Just don't talk about the monitor stand. Please.

[^1]: Speaking of the theme, all credit to Apple for the lovely cover art.
